this video is about the past present and
dubious future of vegan activism it's
also with a legacy of one youtuber and
vegan activist known as Brianna
jackfruits in' she later went on to
referring to herself just as Brianna
Jackson I am gonna read out the very few
emails ahead back and forth with her
over the years so the title of this
video is not clickbait but I'm also
going to address some issues that came
up in the comments section in response
to my first video that was basically
making the announcement something she
had announced but I managed to keep
quiet that she is in fact no longer
vegan she's now evidently eating meat
eggs and dairy so here's someone whose
life was really touched by Brianna's
career here on YouTube
broccoli writes in and says what a shame
when I went vegan at age 14 Brianna was
one of the first social media
influencers that really put veganism in
my mind being British not much older
than myself and also haven't come out of
an eating disorder at a young age she
struck me as a bit out of my level in
terms of confidence and such yet I still
believe that her motivations were as
genuine as mine
despite our similar pasts and one day I
hope my life could be as comfortable as
her seed so just mentioned something
that's not touched on here at all she
just described her to be very confident
and very appealing in some vague sense
so it's not mentioned here was the body
I put up a screenshot of my last video
some of you were surprised to see of how
she presented herself as a as a public
figure within veganism
she's obviously a very short very slight
person but she obviously exercised very
rigorously in a very tightly maintained
diet and you know probably she could
have gotten work as some kind of model
maybe modeling you know athletic shoes
or something I know she's not you know
she's not as tall as most models for
example but still probably should go
into a talent agency during that time of
life you probably could have gotten
modeling work and there's no doubt that
our influence on people like this at age
14 was in significant part due to her
her appearance in her
Fitness even so I quickly grew bored of
her vapid monotonous fruit meals yeah
pause on that word that I wish it were
pronounced vape it but it's not the word
is vapid not vape it I wish it were
vapid I wish I would wear the other way
around but what about quickly grew bored
of her vapid monotonous fruit meals as
they grew into veganism nevermind the
fact that her channel stagnated for lack
of a better term it breaks my heart to
see how Breanna has become to think I
ever wanted to meet her at a meet-up I'm
not surprised she's still out of that
she's still a lot of meeting fans in
parks and public viewing events
she always struck me as a bit
overconfident and judging by her
Instagram posts she now seems just
recklessly cocky and it's become clear
to me that there was nothing genuine
about her ugh
so at this point I'm gonna pop in a
brief video clip showing you the type of
slacktivism or activism the brand was
known for and of course it's especially
ironic because in this clip she's
criticizing someone for being ex vegan
and now she isn't excavating herself I
used to use the whole argument of Oh
circle of life
oh well we're not lions oh just because
- he doesn't mean we have to eat it
according to our basic physiology you
know Nick was talking earlier about
biology and about how we are clearly
omnivorous but honestly just looking at
a simple diagram and you know comparing
ourselves again to carnivores and
omnivores and seeing that they have
giant claws to be able to rip apart an
animal and sharp fangs to be able to dig
into their flesh and just eat their
bloody meat you know organs spilling
everywhere and blood running all down
their face it's very very obvious that
if we were out in the wild and we saw a
deer we would not be able to hunt down a
deer like a lion could you know it's
just like people like to say that we
have sharp teeth like honestly for like
that could dig into a deer and I could
eat it alive and moreover that I would
actually enjoy eating that raw flesh
again blood spilling all down my face
without cooking it with that without
adding any seasonings or spices to it
like
it and everyone else please honestly ask
yourself would you actually enjoy that
we don't have four chambered stomachs to
digest plant matter like cows do or
horses well we are humans we are not
cows and we are not horses and you know
it's just very obvious that we are not
designed to eat me just by comparing our
digestive tract to that of an omnivore
or a carnivore right it doesn't matter
how many calories of sardines I eat if
there's no vitamin C in sardines I'm not
getting it he feels like he might be
deficient in something and he feels like
he may be lacking in certain nutrients
but as far as I am aware he hasn't been
specific about the certain nutrients
that he feels like he's lacking it does
that mean that because I am vegan I know
I'm lacking vitamin D and therefore the
vegan diet is unhealthy no it's because
you know humans are not designed to live
in cold climates you know we're meant to
have sunlight all year round but because
the way that society is shaped right now
and the fact that I was born in England
and I don't really want to move away
that means that I don't get sunlight all
year round and it's in my best interests
to take a supplement and again that does
not mean that I am unhealthy or that the
vegan diet is not the correct diet for
humans just because I'm lacking in
vitamin D so this is the other issue a
lot of people wanted to dispute with me
Derek Walter writes in how can she feel
better when she's so much fatter now and
we get us somewhat abstract and
philosophical response from this
commenter who's NEMA will not attempt to
pronounce okay I was probably getting
over invested overly invested when at
first I had only been trying to point
out that for all we know her body mass
index is not over 25 let alone 30
I also guess if you put yourself out
there on the internet the way Branagh
does you should be prepared for some
people being being dicks being mean and
triggering you whether you struggle with
an eating disorder or not thanks for
your openness though have a nice day or
a nice evening assume you live in
America and this guy writes back and
says hey I appreciate you're trying to
turn this into something more profound
but I was just being a jerk I was just
being a dick no look guys I do not think
that putting in the hours to optimize
your physical appearance is the best use
of your time as a human being on planet
this this person already know who this
is this is a vegan who posted progress
pictures on Instagram and I saw it
because another Instagram account linked
to it or featured at the difference
between these two bodies the
before-and-after picture how many
hundreds of hours of hard work can be
justified by this difference in your
appearance or this difference in your
level of health or this difference in
your level of strength here's a
well-known vegan diet and exercise guru
Stephanie naturally Stephanie and this
is her before and after
now in her case to estimate how many
hundreds of hours how many thousands of
hours she's put in at the gym between
this before picture and this after
picture unbelievable now in either case
if you think about that time on what you
could have done with it Stephanie here
could have learned Latin she could have
learned Greek she could have learned
Russian she probably could have learned
Chinese in the amount of time and effort
she put into developing her body now we
all have to ask this about ourselves is
it worth it is it worth the sacrifice is
it worth the loss of time and talent to
develop your body especially when you're
looking at these kinds of contrasts so I
was by no means
suggesting that you know like Brianna
when you look at her before-and-after
pictures that she's beholden to try to
maintain this appearance forever at any
cost
you know people even if it wasn't that
she went from vegan to X vegan if she
just went from being a vegan who was
training a lot of the gym to being a
vegan who was studying chemistry in
university and need to spend all her
time really studying chemistry and
couldn't couldn't exercise that much and
couldn't diet that's true so I'm really
not some kind of advocate that everyone
should try to maintain a fitness models
appearance and in my own life you know
fair's fair this is a picture of me
being out of shape by my standards in
this picture I'm out of shape but the
difference in appearance we meet being
out of shape and me being in shape this
image is obviously a minute meant as a
joke this is me joking
around but when this picture was taken I
was doing 200 push-ups a day every day I
was going to the gym twice a day I was
working very hard for the very slight
difference in appearance that you see
between these two photos and for me from
my perspective I'm not doing it for the
appearance I'm motivated by other things
but other considerations but again look
at these other young women how much time
and how much effort it can possibly be
just for this hey I'm open to the
possibility obviously Breanna is not
beholden to to maintaining that level of
fitness we all have other priorities and
most of us really have better things to
worry about better things do the time so
that's cool the problem is in this case
when I'm drawing attention to at what
the reason for my putting those photos
in the video is to draw attention to the
contrast between the claims she's making
about feeling better about her quitting
veganism being somehow related to her
health it's like well you may say you
feel better but looking at it
objectively from the outside it really
does not look like you're healthier now
than you were when you were a vegan
fitness model
so this is an interesting little example
my dialogue with Brianna this is way
back in the year 2015 and you can tell
from the way this started that she and I
were already speaking so we had talked
to each other in a vegan youtubers forum
and I don't remember the conversation
probably both of us were giving
compliments to a third person I was
probably somebody with a video that we
both said was a good video we're both
chatting about it was a Facebook group
for vegan YouTube content creators and
back in those days people were more
collaborative more encouraging to one
another so she and I started talking
there and then I sent her a direct
message saying hey I just made a video
about veganism myself for the first time
in nine years that's a very memorable
very strange video for me I had no idea
how to do lighting properly so the
lighting and image quality is absolutely
awful but hey I was just drawing it easy
to work and she replies really
interesting video exclamation point I
totally relate to that frustration
sometimes but I've learned I can only do
what I feel is right and will help
benefit the movement I do think vegan
communities exist though there are lots
of meetups and groups of friends and
families who come together and try to
fit the mission veganism so this is
again worth hearing worth remembering at
one time she was someone who was really
sincerely concerned about the future of
the vegan movement as I said in my first
video she really was a significant
person yeah both in digital slacktivism
and in real world activism that's how I
remember her and that memory is
preserved here and this little old
Allegan so then whatever a year or more
goes by I wrote to her again saying hi
Brianna I just reread this message
because I was searching my message
history for another friend with the name
Jackson so Wow things have really
changed since 2015 for both of us too
bad we didn't meet in Chiangmai I think
I left before you arrived oh so we were
both there we were both there within the
same within the same month or something
maybe we'll cross paths sometimes I
really do try to build bridges with all
kinds of vegans who might only have a
few things in common with and as you
know anyone who gets kicked out of the
fruit festival is a friend of mine so
this is also interesting for you guys
who may think I don't
reach out positively to other vegans on
YouTube whether vegan activists or
YouTube content raters this is an
example that and then the last attempt I
had to write to or was this one this
must be another year or later more more
than a year later I wrote to her and
said you know these are some pictures of
a simpler time in my life
baking college were enrolled to learn to
become vegan bakers bread cakes etc a
career that only interests me because of
veganism so yes being a baker has
occurred that only interested me because
of vegan activism or as a form of
veganism and she responded to that
message by blocking me on Facebook
though it wasn't in a position or way it
is quite possible that when that message
was sent she already knew that she was
either quitting than being in a moment
or that she was going to go back to
eating me it is what it is people the
past present and future of the vegan
movement talent is scarce and it's a
goddamn shame that so much of the money
support and interest has gone behind
some of the people who had the least
talent the least potential to really
positively benefit the movement who had
the least sincere interest in building
of the movement over the long-term
future so we've talked about a number of
prominent ex vegans on this channel in
every case you have to wonder what if
that's support what if that incentive
not just financial support not just
financial incentive what if that
positive attention cooperation
collaboration from both real world
activists and digital what have that
that had gone behind somebody somewhere
who was sincerely thinking about the
long-term future of the movement who was
really trying to do something positive
for the animals for the environment for
human ethics for human health for all
the rest of it a lot of people have been
betting on the wrong horse again and
again and again and in the year 2019 I
feel like most of us have gotten tired
of running around the same old track
guys I hope someone in this audience can
reach out to me and give me some hope
some optimism for the future the vegan
movement because I'm running on empty
right now from my little apartment in
town
I have none at all nobody has done
anything or said anything to me to offer
me any optimism about the future of this
movement I wish I could quit I wish I
could but I can't so
[Music]